diagnostics: more translation and diagnostic derive documentation (#1363)
rust-lang/rustc-dev-guide: src/diagnostics/translation.md

```fluent
typeck-struct-expr-non-exhaustive =
    cannot create non-exhaustive {$what} using struct expression
```

In the above example, the Fluent message refers to an argument named `what`
which is expected to exist (how arguments are provided to diagnostics is
discussed in detail later).

You can consult the [Fluent] documentation for other usage examples of Fluent
and its syntax.

### Guidelines for writing translatable messages
For a message to be translatable into different languages, all of the
information required by any language must be provided to the diagnostic as an
argument (not just the information required in the English message).

As the compiler team gain more experience writing diagnostics that have all of
the information necessary to be translated into different languages, this page
will be updated with more guidance. For now, the [Fluent] documentation has
excellent examples of translating messages into different locales and the
information that needs to be provided by the code to do so.

### Compile-time validation and typed identifiers
rustc's Fluent resources for the default locale (`en-US`) are in the

> `compiler/rustc_error_messages/locales/en-US` directory. Currently, each crate

Author: Fixed!

which defines translatable diagnostics has its own Fluent resource, such as
`parser.ftl` or `typeck.ftl`.

rustc's `fluent_messages` macro performs compile-time validation of Fluent
resources and generates code to make it easier to refer to Fluent messages in
diagnostics.

> Compile-time validation of Fluent resources will emitting any parsing errors

Author: Fixed!

];

mod fluent_generated {
    mod typeck {
        pub const field_multiply_specified_in_initializer: DiagnosticMessage =
            DiagnosticMessage::new("typeck-field-multiply-specified-in-initializer");
        pub const label: SubdiagnosticMessage =
            SubdiagnosticMessage::attr("label");
        pub const label_previous_use: SubdiagnosticMessage =
            SubdiagnosticMessage::attr("previous-use-label");
    }
}
```

`rustc_error_messages::fluent_generated` is re-exported and primarily used as
`rustc_errors::fluent`.

```rust
use rustc_errors::fluent;
let mut err = sess.struct_span_err(span, fluent::typeck::field_multiply_specified_in_initializer);
err.span_label(span, fluent::typeck::label);
err.span_label(previous_use_span, fluent::typeck::previous_use_label);
err.emit();
```

When emitting a diagnostic, these constants can be used like shown above.

## Internals
Various parts of rustc's diagnostic internals are modified in order to support
translation.

### Messages
All of rustc's traditional diagnostic APIs (e.g. `struct_span_err` or `note`)
take any message that can be converted into a `DiagnosticMessage` (or
`SubdiagnosticMessage`).

> `rustc_error_messages::DiagnosticMessage` can represent legacy non-translatable

Author: Fixed!

`rustc_error_messages::SubdiagnosticMessage` is similar, it can correspond to a
legacy non-translatable diagnostic message or the name of an attribute to a
Fluent message. Translatable `SubdiagnosticMessage`s must be combined with a
`DiagnosticMessage` (using `DiagnosticMessage::with_subdiagnostic_message`) to
be emitted (an attribute name on its own is meaningless without a corresponding
message identifier, which is what `DiagnosticMessage` provides).

Both `DiagnosticMessage` and `SubdiagnosticMessage` implement `Into` for any
type that can be converted into a string, and converts these into
non-translatable diagnostics - this keeps all existing diagnostic calls
working.

### Arguments
Additional context for Fluent messages which are interpolated into message
contents needs to be provided to translatable diagnostics.

Diagnostics have a `set_arg` function that can be used to provide this
additional context to a diagnostic.

Arguments have both a name (e.g. "what" in the earlier example) and a value.
Argument values are represented using the `DiagnosticArgValue` type, which is
just a string or a number. rustc types can implement `IntoDiagnosticArg` with a

> conversion into a string or an number, common types like `Ty<'tcx>` already

Author: Fixed!

bundle which is requested by the user.

Diagnostic emitters implement the `Emitter` trait which has two functions for
accessing the fallback and primary fluent bundles (`fallback_fluent_bundle` and
`fluent_bundle` respectively).

`Emitter` also has member functions with default implementations for performing
translation of a `DiagnosticMessage` using the results of
`fallback_fluent_bundle` and `fluent_bundle`.

All of the emitters in rustc load the fallback Fluent bundle lazily, only
reading Fluent resources and parsing them when an error message is first being
translated (for performance reasons - it doesn't make sense to do this if no
error is being emitted). `rustc_error_messages::fallback_fluent_bundle` returns
a `std::lazy::Lazy<FluentBundle>` which is provided to emitters and evaluated
in the first call to `Emitter::fallback_fluent_bundle`.

The primary Fluent bundle (for the user's desired locale) is expected to be
returned by `Emitter::fluent_bundle`. This bundle is used preferentially when
translating messages, the fallback bundle is only used if the primary bundle is
missing a message or not provided.

> At the time of writing, there are no locale bundles distributed with the

Author: Fixed!

compiler, but mechanisms are implemented for loading bundles.

- `-Ztranslate-additional-ftl` can be used to load a specific resource as the
  primary bundle for testing purposes.
- `-Ztranslate-lang` can be provided a language identifier (something like
  `en-US`) and will load any Fluent resources found in
  `$sysroot/share/locale/$locale/` directory (both the user provided
  sysroot and any sysroot candidates).

Primary bundles are not currently loaded lazily and if requested will be loaded
at the start of compilation regardless of whether an error occurs. Lazily
loading primary bundles is possible if it can be assumed that loading a bundle
won't fail. Bundle loading can fail if a requested locale is missing, Fluent

> files are malformed or if a message is duplicated in multiple resources.

Author: Fixed!

2. Using typed identifiers with `DiagnosticBuilder` APIs (in
   `SessionDiagnostic` implementations).

When adding or changing a translatable diagnostic, you don't need to worry
about the translations, only updating the original English message. Currently,
each crate which defines translatable diagnostics has its own Fluent resource,
such as `parser.ftl` or `typeck.ftl`.

## Fluent
Fluent is built around the idea of "asymmetric localization", which aims to
decouple the expressiveness of translations from the grammar of the source
language (English in rustc's case). Prior to translation, rustc's diagnostics
relied heavily on interpolation to build the messages shown to the users.
Interpolated strings are hard to translate because writing a natural-sounding
translation might require more, less, or just different interpolation than the
English string, all of which would require changes to the compiler's source
code to support.

Diagnostic messages are defined in Fluent resources. A combined set of Fluent
resources for a given locale (e.g. `en-US`) is known as Fluent bundle.

```fluent
typeck-address-of-temporary-taken = cannot take address of a temporary
```

> In the above example, `typeck-field-already-declared` is the identifier for a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the above example, `typeck-address-of-temporary-token` is the identifier for a
```

Author: Fixed!
